and muster and silver taps and things like that.
When you came back, everybody was determined, as
you are getting ready to graduate, tell me about
getting a job and things like that. What was the job
market? The job market was a big... I guess if I had
to overall look, I could say it was a circus.
Wendell Horsley had fine-tuned the job
application process, and he provided us. I have a
little portrait, a print cut, a printed resume, In
my case, I was a distinguished student in a degree
in mechanical
engineering.
Dr. Gilchrist had arranged for me to get a
fellowship to go to Purdue. And I felt like that
would be a tough road to hold. year-and-a-half
old, almost two-year-old son, and no
money. So I thanked him profusely and went ahead to
my applications, and I interviewed, I had ten job
offers to have more. I took the job offered by
Humboldt and a planning company, Exxon, because
it was slightly more money, but at the time it was a
company that I had most confidence in would still
be there as long as I wanted to be there. Do you
remember what that starting salary was? Yeah, it
was $2.37 an hour on a drilling drill. Cool. And you
graduated? This was January of 1947. Tell me about
the commencement ceremony. I don't think there
was one. I wasn't there. I'd gone to get my job lined
up. I went down to Houston and they told me to come
back in several days and I went back and Got things
set with Virginia and Little Rock and then I went
back and they told me to go over to Beaumont. Did you
get, where, how did you obtain your diploma? Was it
mailed to you or do you remember? Yeah, as I recall
it was mailed to me. Let's see, one of that I
remember, see that I missed was Bonfire. Was there
a Bonfire held in those days? Oh yeah. Where was it?
It was in the middle of the drill field. Okay. For
example, when I was a freshman, it was mandatory on
the freshman to scout the wood for the bonfire
in the months of October and early November. And
the guys in my outfit, we discovered a a lonesome
telephone pole down there north of Northgate. It
was out in the vacant lot. It looked kind of malty.
So we
undertook to appropriate that pole. Some folks
put a lot of concrete around the bottom of it. So it
took us, I guess, about two weeks of rocking that
thing back and forth to
It took two weeks of rocking that thing back and
forth before we could finally pull it out of the
ground. And then we hauled it up there and laid our
stack on the pile. So it was a pile then of... No more
than one telephone pole high. Okay. A telephone
pole not as tall as a black pole. All right. And
there was not paper. Somehow they always found a
chick sail to go on top. That's what I've heard.
Now, there was no... No trash paper or cardboard?
No.
It was all wood, but it was not stacked up,
organized like it is now? Oh, no. Nobody was in
charge. Everybody made their contribution as
they saw fit. Did the whole student body turn out
for it? Oh, yeah.
I guess it was after I came back from it. Texas Corps
tried to firebomb
it from an airplane, but that didn't happen. They
always had the chick saying, and it wasn't a big
deal. Where did that, where did those words come
from? The chick saying? Oh, that's a long,
long thing to say. It sure didn't have anything to
do with anything. Okay. The most important
question of all. Now as you look back, what did it
mean to you and your life that you went to A&M? What
effect did it have?
Well, the greatest thing that could happen to me,
I'll forever be grateful for the opportunity.
I went to A&M, I had the opportunity to who
get an education, literally thousands of
friends, and have had the opportunity
to lead several causes that have, I think,
bolstered respect
for me, and just to serve all that come their way. I
could have gone, I had applications to MIT,
Caltech,
Stanford, but I collected for reasons of either
housing or otherwise, or not to try, but I had a good
start. I was really humble. Thank
you, thank you.
Let's quit there.